---
layout: post
title: Time Encoding 
date: 2025-01-01 11:12:00-0400
description: KT-1 CONGEST model message-efficient algorithm
tags: formatting math
categories: messages
citation: true
related_posts: false
---
 
> $$ \text{KT-1  CONGEST model: one algorithm using } \tilde{O}(n) \text{ messages, but an exponential number of rounds, solves any graph problem} $$


1. [KKT](https://arxiv.org/abs/1502.03320) algorithm builds a spanning tree  $$ T $$ in $$ \tilde{O}(n) $$ rounds and messages. 
2. [Elect a leader](https://web.archive.org/web/20170922062231id_/http://pure.qub.ac.uk/portal/files/17451767/Pure_Jacm_Version.pdf) on the spanning tree using $$ \tilde{O}(n) $$ messages. Subsequently, the leader $$ u_{*} $$ servers as the root of the spanning tree $$ T $$ and every node knows its distance in $$T$$ from $$ u_* $$ . 
3. Assuming an ID range of size $$ n^c $$, there are at most $$ t=2^{n \choose 2}(n!){n^c \choose n} $$ possible $$ n $$-node graphs where a subset of $$ n $$ IDs is chosen and assigned to the nodes by selecting one of the possible $$ n! $$ permutations. Note: with this ID range of size, we can build this many $$ t $$ distinct graphs.
4. Let $$ E $$ be some arbitrary enumeration of the set of permutations and let $$ E_{i} $$ refer to the $$ i $$-th item in the order stipulated by $$ E $$. Then do convergecast with the following in $$ d $$ iterations and $$ t $$ rounds per iteration, where $$ d $$ is the maximum distance of a node from the root $$ u_{*} $$ in $$ T $$. Note: $$ d $$ can be known by all nodes in $$ O(D) $$ additional rounds.
	1. In the 1st iteration, each leaf at distance $$ d $$ sends exactly 1 bit to its parent in round $$ k $$ if its local neighborhood corresponds to $$ E_k $$. Note: In each iteration, there are $$ t $$ rounds, in each round, we check the respective graph (there are $$ t $$ such graphs as 3 said). Note that all the graphs topology are known to all nodes in advance. That is, from round 1, we check $$ E_{1} $$, round 2, check $$ E_2 $$, ..., round $$ t $$, we check $$ E_{t} $$.  When check, the active node checks if its neighborhood is the same as the current graph, if yes, then send 1 bit to its parent. Then the parent will decode the child's neighborhood by the current graph. 
	2. Similarly, in iteration $$ i>1 $$, every node $$ u $$ at distance $$ d-i+1 $$, sends 1 bit in round $$ k' $$ such that $$ E_{k'} $$ corresponds to the subgraph consisting of $$u$$'s neighborhood as well as the topology information received from its children in the previous iterations.  
		-Proceeding in this manner ensures that a node can convey its current knowledge of the network topology to its parent by sending only a single bit during one of the rounds in this iteration while remaining silent in all others. 
	3. After $$ d $$ iterations, the entire topological information is received by the root $$ u_* $$, and this information again corresponds to some $$ E_{k''} $$. 
	4. Subsequently, we use another $$ d $$ iterations, each consisting of $$ t $$ rounds, to disseminate $$ E_{k''} $$ starting from $$ u_* $$ to all nodes in the network, and this can be down by sending only $$ O(n) $$ messages in total. 
	5. Finally, each node locally computes its output from $$ E_{k''} $$ according to the solution to problem $$ P $$. 


<!-- $$$$
\sum_{k=1}^\infty |\langle x, e_k \rangle|^2 \leq \|x\|^2
$$$$

You can also use `\begin{equation}...\end{equation}` instead of `$$$$` for display mode math.
MathJax will automatically number equations:

\begin{equation}
\label{eq:cauchy-schwarz}
\left( \sum_{k=1}^n a_k b_k \right)^2 \leq \left( \sum_{k=1}^n a_k^2 \right) \left( \sum_{k=1}^n b_k^2 \right)
\end{equation}

and by adding `\label{...}` inside the equation environment, we can now refer to the equation using `\eqref`.

Note that MathJax 3 is [a major re-write of MathJax](https://docs.mathjax.org/en/latest/upgrading/whats-new-3.0.html) that brought a significant improvement to the loading and rendering speed, which is now [on par with KaTeX](http://www.intmath.com/cg5/katex-mathjax-comparison.php). -->